docs/learn/unit1/variables.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Variables
permalink: learn/unit1/variables
parent: Unit 1
grand_parent: Learn
nav_order: 4
---

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

# Unit 1: Variables
{: .no_toc }

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## What are variables?

You've probably used variables in math class when dealing with algebra.
Variables in programming are similar, but they're definitely not the same.

Think of variables in programming as a box with a label on it. You can put stuff
in this box, and that stuff represents the value of the variable. You can change
what you put in the box or you can look into the box and see what is already
there.

Variables are useful because they can store different values and can be reused
multiple times. They can also give meaning to otherwise meaningless values,
thereby making programs easier to read.

So what "stuff" can you put into a variable? Let's talk about the different data
types in Java.

## Primitive Data Types

The most basic types are called _primitives_. They're the building blocks for
more sophisticated types of data called _objects_. Here are commonly used
primitives:

| Primitive Type | In Java Syntax | Examples                           |
| :------------- | :------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| integer        | `int`          | `5`, `0`, `-23636`                 |
| long           | `long`         | `253252362646135`, `5346464623531` |
| double         | `double`       | `5.2`, `10.0`, `-36.236235`        |
| character      | `char`         | `'c'`, `'1'`, `'%'`                |
| boolean        | `boolean`      | `true`, `false`                    |

`int` and `long` are both types of integers, except that `long` is used for
really big integers.

Note that `10.0` is considered a `double` since it has a decimal point.

Note that `char` types are enclosed within single quotes.

Note that a `boolean` can only have 2 values, `true` or `false`.

## Strings

Strings are a series of characters strung together. (Hence the name.) Strings
are objects. You can remember this by noticing that the type `String` has a
capital s. All objects are named in the same way as classes because (as we will
learn later) objects are instances of classes.

Strings are enclosed within double quotes. For example, `"Hello world!"`,
`"this is a string"`, `"12"`, `" "`, and `"c"` are all strings.

### Concatenation

String _concatenation_ is when you combine two or more strings. You do it like
this:

```java
System.out.println("string 1" + "string 2");
```

Output:

```
string1string2
```

## Declaring, Initializing, and Updating Variables

Now that we know what can be stored in a variable, let's talk about how to make
one.

To declare a variable in Java, you simply state the type and name of the
variable.

```java
String name;
```

To initialize (give a first value) to the variable, use the assignment operator
`=`.

```java
String name;
name = "Jane Doe";
```

Note that you can declare and initialize in one step:

```java
String name = "Jane Doe";
```

Now that we've declared and initialized a variable, we can do things with the
variable, such as printing it.

```java
String name = "Jane Doe";
System.out.println(name);
```

Output:

```
Jane Doe
```

## Casting

Sometimes, you will need to convert from one data type to another (assuming it
is possible). This process is called _casting_. To cast in Java, you simply put
the type you want to convert to in parentheses before whatever you want to
convert:

```java
// cast 10.0 to an int
int number = (int) 10.0;
```

Keep in mind that you cannot always cast to another type and that if you cast
down (that is, you go from a more precise type to a less precise type), you
might lose precision. For example, if you cast `10.5` to an `int`, you would
lose the decimal.

Also note that if you want to cast an expression, make sure you put it in
parentheses, otherwise only the thing immediately to the right will be cast.

```java
int number = (int) (10.0 / 12);
```

## Constants

Sometimes you will want to make a variable that stores only one value that never
changes, such as a conversion rate. This is a special type of variable called a
_constant_. In Java, you can declare a constant using the `final` keyword.

```java
final DAYS_PER_WEEK = 7;
```

The final keyword makes it so that if you attempt to update the value of the
constant, it gives you an error.

## Naming

### The Rules

All identifiers <sup id="a1">[1](#f1)</sup> (names that identify elements, such
as classes, methods, or variables) must:

-   Be a sequence of characters that consists of letters, digits, underscores
    (\_), and dollar signs (\$).
-   Start with a letter, an underscore (\_), or a dollar sign (\$). It cannot
    start with a digit.

They cannot:

-   Be a reserved word (e.g. `class`, `public`, `final`)
-   Be `true`, `false`, or `null`

Note that identifiers are case sensitive, so `java`, `Java`, and `JAVA` are all
different elements.

### The Conventions

Identifiers can also be as long as you want; however, you should try to make
identifiers as concise as possible.

Concise doesn't necessarily mean short. For example, don't name a variable `a`
when it represents someone's age. Just use `age`. (Sometimes, however, it's ok
to have variables that are just one letter long. Usually these are more generic
or throwaway variables.)

Regular variables should be named in the camelCase convention, which means that
each word in the name of the variable is capitalized except the first one. For
example, `age`, `numberOfTissues`, and `backpackWeight` are all good variable
names.

Constants should be named using snake case, with all uppercase letters. Snake
case means that all words are separated by underscores. For example,
`DAYS_PER_WEEK`, `PI`, and `FILE_NAME` are all good constant names.

## Footnotes

<b id="f1">1</b> Identifier rules from _Introduction to Java Programming
(Comprehensive)_, 10th ed. by Y. Daniel Liang. [↩](#a1)

Commit message:

Add multiple variable declare/initialize

docs/learn/unit1/variables.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Variables
permalink: learn/unit1/variables
parent: Unit 1
grand_parent: Learn
nav_order: 4
---

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

# Unit 1: Variables
{: .no_toc }

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## What are variables?

You've probably used variables in math class when dealing with algebra.
Variables in programming are similar, but they're definitely not the same.

Think of variables in programming as a box with a label on it. You can put stuff
in this box, and that stuff represents the value of the variable. You can change
what you put in the box or you can look into the box and see what is already
there.

Variables are useful because they can store different values and can be reused
multiple times. They can also give meaning to otherwise meaningless values,
thereby making programs easier to read.

So what "stuff" can you put into a variable? Let's talk about the different data
types in Java.

## Primitive Data Types

The most basic types are called _primitives_. They're the building blocks for
more sophisticated types of data called _objects_. Here are commonly used
primitives:

| Primitive Type | In Java Syntax | Examples                           |
| :------------- | :------------- | :--------------------------------- |
| integer        | `int`          | `5`, `0`, `-23636`                 |
| long           | `long`         | `253252362646135`, `5346464623531` |
| double         | `double`       | `5.2`, `10.0`, `-36.236235`        |
| character      | `char`         | `'c'`, `'1'`, `'%'`                |
| boolean        | `boolean`      | `true`, `false`                    |

`int` and `long` are both types of integers, except that `long` is used for
really big integers.

Note that `10.0` is considered a `double` since it has a decimal point.

Note that `char` types are enclosed within single quotes.

Note that a `boolean` can only have 2 values, `true` or `false`.

## Strings

Strings are a series of characters strung together. (Hence the name.) Strings
are objects. You can remember this by noticing that the type `String` has a
capital s. All objects are named in the same way as classes because (as we will
learn later) objects are instances of classes.

Strings are enclosed within double quotes. For example, `"Hello world!"`,
`"this is a string"`, `"12"`, `" "`, and `"c"` are all strings.

### Concatenation

String _concatenation_ is when you combine two or more strings. You do it like
this:

```java
System.out.println("string 1" + "string 2");
```

Output:

```
string1string2
```

## Declaring, Initializing, and Updating Variables

Now that we know what can be stored in a variable, let's talk about how to make
one.

To declare a variable in Java, you simply state the type and name of the
variable.

```java
String name;
```

To initialize (give a first value) to the variable, use the assignment operator
`=`.

```java
String name;
name = "Jane Doe";
```

Note that you can declare and initialize in one step:

```java
String name = "Jane Doe";
```

Now that we've declared and initialized a variable, we can do things with the
variable, such as printing it.

```java
String name = "Jane Doe";
System.out.println(name);
```

Output:

```
Jane Doe
```

Note that you can also declare and initialize multiple variables of the same
type at the same time. For example:

```java
int a, b, c;
int d = 1, e = 2, f = 3;
```

## Casting

Sometimes, you will need to convert from one data type to another (assuming it
is possible). This process is called _casting_. To cast in Java, you simply put
the type you want to convert to in parentheses before whatever you want to
convert:

```java
// cast 10.0 to an int
int number = (int) 10.0;
```

Keep in mind that you cannot always cast to another type and that if you cast
down (that is, you go from a more precise type to a less precise type), you
might lose precision. For example, if you cast `10.5` to an `int`, you would
lose the decimal.

Also note that if you want to cast an expression, make sure you put it in
parentheses, otherwise only the thing immediately to the right will be cast.

```java
int number = (int) (10.0 / 12);
```

## Constants

Sometimes you will want to make a variable that stores only one value that never
changes, such as a conversion rate. This is a special type of variable called a
_constant_. In Java, you can declare a constant using the `final` keyword.

```java
final DAYS_PER_WEEK = 7;
```

The final keyword makes it so that if you attempt to update the value of the
constant, it gives you an error.

## Naming

### The Rules

All identifiers <sup id="a1">[1](#f1)</sup> (names that identify elements, such
as classes, methods, or variables) must:

-   Be a sequence of characters that consists of letters, digits, underscores
    (\_), and dollar signs (\$).
-   Start with a letter, an underscore (\_), or a dollar sign (\$). It cannot
    start with a digit.

They cannot:

-   Be a reserved word (e.g. `class`, `public`, `final`)
-   Be `true`, `false`, or `null`

Note that identifiers are case sensitive, so `java`, `Java`, and `JAVA` are all
different elements.

### The Conventions

Identifiers can also be as long as you want; however, you should try to make
identifiers as concise as possible.

Concise doesn't necessarily mean short. For example, don't name a variable `a`
when it represents someone's age. Just use `age`. (Sometimes, however, it's ok
to have variables that are just one letter long. Usually these are more generic
or throwaway variables.)

Regular variables should be named in the camelCase convention, which means that
each word in the name of the variable is capitalized except the first one. For
example, `age`, `numberOfTissues`, and `backpackWeight` are all good variable
names.

Constants should be named using snake case, with all uppercase letters. Snake
case means that all words are separated by underscores. For example,
`DAYS_PER_WEEK`, `PI`, and `FILE_NAME` are all good constant names.

## Footnotes

<b id="f1">1</b> Identifier rules from _Introduction to Java Programming
(Comprehensive)_, 10th ed. by Y. Daniel Liang. [↩](#a1)
