docs/learn/students.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Students
permalink: learn/students
nav_order: 1
parent: Learn
---

# Students
Do you want to learn Java and/or programming for FTC? You've come to the right place! In this repository you'll find source code and other resources to help you learn.

## Quizzes
Take these short quizzes to test your knowledge of each unit! After submitting, you can view your score, missed questions, and correct answers.
1. [Unit 1](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfkSQ05YI-tb9I6yapqMijTjv3h8z_vs87OpCmsw57laPi-4Q/viewform?usp=sf_link)
2. [Unit 2](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdBDAeHlnDl6LZQQMsg8GQAhOhu0aXELp-9Bv-UXyTTd99nIg/viewform?usp=sf_link)
3. [Unit 3](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSer5kFZwZe5kwINd1TyJC_84HGEX4CKB1nx4Rm7Ow4jOl1xEA/viewform?usp=sf_link)

## Downloads
Before you start programming, make sure you have downloaded Java and have either an IDE or text editor to write code. (IDEs are preferred because testing code is easier.)

### Java
* [Java SE (Standard Edition) Downloads](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)
* [Java Installation Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/install/overview-jdk-installation.html#GUID-8677A77F-231A-40F7-98B9-1FD0B48C346A)

### Common IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) for Java
* [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)*
* [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)
* [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)

### Common Text Editors
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
* [Atom](https://atom.io/)
* [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/3)

*Android Studio is widely used by FTC teams.

## Learn Online
Here are some websites you can also use to learn Java or other programming languages.

* [Game Manual 0](https://gm0.copperforge.cc/en/stable/) - A community-maintained comprehensive guide to FTC
* [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/) - Has an introductory Java course for free
* [edX](https://www.edx.org/) - Tons of certificate-based online courses
* [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/) - Tons of certificate-based online courses
* [Code.org](https://code.org/) - Introduction to programming fundamentals; has block programming

Commit message:

Move Quizzes section to bottom

docs/learn/students.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Students
permalink: learn/students
nav_order: 1
parent: Learn
---

# Students
Do you want to learn Java and/or programming for FTC? You've come to the right place! In this repository you'll find source code and other resources to help you learn.

## Downloads
Before you start programming, make sure you have downloaded Java and have either an IDE or text editor to write code. (IDEs are preferred because testing code is easier.)

### Java
* [Java SE (Standard Edition) Downloads](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html)
* [Java Installation Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/14/install/overview-jdk-installation.html#GUID-8677A77F-231A-40F7-98B9-1FD0B48C346A)

### Common IDEs (Integrated Development Environments) for Java
* [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)*
* [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)
* [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)

### Common Text Editors
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download)
* [Atom](https://atom.io/)
* [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/3)

*Android Studio is widely used by FTC teams.

## Quizzes
Take these short quizzes to test your knowledge of each unit! After submitting, you can view your score, missed questions, and correct answers. You can also view these quizzes at the bottom of each unit's page.
1. [Unit 1](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfkSQ05YI-tb9I6yapqMijTjv3h8z_vs87OpCmsw57laPi-4Q/viewform?usp=sf_link)
2. [Unit 2](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdBDAeHlnDl6LZQQMsg8GQAhOhu0aXELp-9Bv-UXyTTd99nIg/viewform?usp=sf_link)
3. [Unit 3](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSer5kFZwZe5kwINd1TyJC_84HGEX4CKB1nx4Rm7Ow4jOl1xEA/viewform?usp=sf_link)

## Other Online Resources
Here are some websites you can use besides this one to learn Java or other programming languages.

* [Game Manual 0](https://gm0.copperforge.cc/en/stable/) - A community-maintained comprehensive guide to FTC
* [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/) - Has an introductory Java course for free
* [edX](https://www.edx.org/) - Tons of certificate-based online courses
* [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/) - Tons of certificate-based online courses
* [Code.org](https://code.org/) - Introduction to programming fundamentals; has block programming
