docs/units.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Units
permalink: units
nav_order: 3
---

# Units

Source code is divided by unit:

1. [Introduction to Java](/learn-code/learn/unit1)
2. [Selection and Boolean Logic](/learn-code/learn/unit2)
3. [Loops and 1D Arrays](/learn-code/learn/unit3)
4. [Methods and Multi-Dimensional Arrays](/learn-code/learn/unit4)
5. [Classes, Inheritance, and Polymorphism](/learn-code/learn/unit5)
6. [Abstract Classes, Interfaces, and Enumerated Types](/learn-code/learn/unit6)
7. [Exception Handling and Git](/learn-code/learn/unit7)
8. [FTC Control System, Sensors, and FTC SDK](/learn-code/learn/unit8)
9. [Roadrunner](/learn-code/learn/unit9)
10. [FTC Computer Vision](/learn-code/learn/unit10)
11. [Control Theory](/learn-code/learn/unit11)

Units 1-7 are **Java Coding** while Units 8-11 are **FTC-Specific Coding**.

## File Navigation

All source code can be found under `src/com/omegarobotics`.

All compiled class files can be found under `out/production/HowToCode`. <br>
**Note:** Class files may be outdated compared to the source code.

Generated Javadoc files can be found under `javadoc`. <br> **Note:** Javadoc
files may be outdated compared to the source code.

All code for this website can be found under `docs`.

## Unit Packages

Inside of each unit folder are 3 packages:

1. `challenges` - Challenge programs to solidify skills
2. `lessons` - Demonstration programs to teach concepts
3. `practice` - Warm-ups and practice programs

Related code inside of those 3 packages may also be organized into subpackages.

Commit message:

Add website nav and practice sections

docs/units.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Units
permalink: units
nav_order: 3
---

# Units

Source code is divided by unit:

1. [Introduction to Java](/learn-code/learn/unit1)
2. [Selection and Boolean Logic](/learn-code/learn/unit2)
3. [Loops and 1D Arrays](/learn-code/learn/unit3)
4. [Methods and Multi-Dimensional Arrays](/learn-code/learn/unit4)
5. [Classes, Inheritance, and Polymorphism](/learn-code/learn/unit5)
6. [Abstract Classes, Interfaces, and Enumerated Types](/learn-code/learn/unit6)
7. [Exception Handling and Git](/learn-code/learn/unit7)
8. [FTC Control System, Sensors, and FTC SDK](/learn-code/learn/unit8)
9. [Roadrunner](/learn-code/learn/unit9)
10. [FTC Computer Vision](/learn-code/learn/unit10)
11. [Control Theory](/learn-code/learn/unit11)

Units 1-7 are **Java Coding** while Units 8-11 are **FTC-Specific Coding**.

## Website Navigation

All curriculum is under [Learn](/learn-code/learn). Student and teacher tips
can be found under [Students](/learn-code/learn/students) and [Teach](/learn-code/teach).

All units under curriculum contain sections with content. The final 2 sections of each
unit contain the unit's practice problems and quiz.

### Practice

All unit practice pages contain **practice** problems (should be doable if you know
the content) and **challenge** problems (require critical thinking and planning).

Each problem is labeled with concepts that it covers and contains the instructions,
template code (which is meant to be copied and pasted), and solution code (link to the 
code on GitHub).

## File Navigation

All source code can be found under `src/com/omegarobotics`.

All compiled class files can be found under `out/production/HowToCode`. <br>
**Note:** Class files may be outdated compared to the source code.

Generated Javadoc files can be found under `javadoc`. <br> **Note:** Javadoc
files may be outdated compared to the source code.

All code for this website can be found under `docs`.

## Unit Packages

Inside of each unit folder are 3 packages:

1. `challenges` - Challenge programs to solidify skills
2. `lessons` - Demonstration programs to teach concepts
3. `practice` - Warm-ups and practice programs

Related code inside of those 3 packages may also be organized into subpackages.
